feat: :sparkles: add content for basics session (#90)
rostools/github-intro: sessions/basics.qmd

you to again re-read the text? We're doing this because we know that
learning and understanding Git can be *very hard*, so we're giving you
repeated exposures to it. Git requires you work with files in a
fundamentally different way than people usually work, so we've learned
to give learners lots of opportunities to try to understand what Git
does and why it is useful. By including these repeated exposures we want
to help reinforce these concepts.
:::

{{< include /includes/_git-basics.qmd >}}

{{< text_snippet sticky_up >}}

> ## What is GitHub?

Author: True, I'll synch them and make them an include

commonly used areas of GitHub, let's use GitHub for it's main purpose of
working with and managing files. We'll do that by creating a new
repository on GitHub.

A repository is essentially a folder that contains all the files and
sub-folders for a project or for a specific purpose, just like how you
might use a folder on your computer. For instance, for a research study,
you could keep all the files related to that project in the repository
so it is in one place and organised. Or if you can have a repository to
store administration files for your lab or group.

For this workshop, we'll create a repository to keep files with recipes
:yum: :cake: :pizza: :stew:

1.  Click on the **Create new...** button {{< fa plus >}}
    {{< fa caret-down >}} on the top right side of the navigation bar.
2.  Click on the **New repository** option in the dropdown menu.
3.  A new page will open up that now shows a list of options to check
    and text boxes to fill in. @tbl-new-repo-options describes what each
    option is and what to set it as for this workshop.

| Option | Description | Workshop Setting |
|:------------------|:---------------------------------|:------------------|

> | Repository owner | This is the account you are creating the repository under. If you are part of an organisation, you can also create new repositories there. | Leave it as your own personal account. |

Reviewer: What, that’s strange!

## :teacher: Instructor note

Show this diagram and explain it to the learners, as well as the state
of the files in the repository at each step.
:::

Before we get into hands-on work with files on GitHub, we'll briefly do
a walkthrough of what happens when you add or modify files stored in a
Git repository like on GitHub. In @fig-git-commits, we have a
hypothetical series of actions done in a Git repository on GitHub that create
commits that are added to the Git history log each time.

When we first create a repository, at least when created on GitHub,
often it will automatically add a file called `README.md` which creates
the first commit of the repository. The `README.md` file is a common
file included in repositories as describes what the repository contains
and is used for. The next step is to add the first file (aside from the
`README.md`) to the repository, which again creates a new commit. As we
make a change to that file, this creates another commit. With each new
file added or when an existing file is modified, moved, deleted, or
renamed, a new commit is created. As shown in @fig-git-commits, each
step made adds a new commit, which is the "circle" or "dot" on the

> diagram, to the Git history log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
diagram, with a commit message to the Git history log.
```

Author: They aren't commit messages in the history. They are explanations.

  'git0': '#ba8b00', 
  'commitLabelBackground': '#ffffff', 
  'commitLabelFontSize': '16px'
  }, 'gitGraph': {'rotateCommitLabel': false}}
}%%
gitGraph TB:
  checkout main
  commit id: "1. Created repo with README: 'README.md'"
  commit id: "2. Add a new recipe file: 'tomato-soup.md'"
  commit id: "3. Fix a typo: 'tomato-soup.md'"
  commit id: "4. Move file to new folder: 'soups/tomato.md'"
  commit id: "5. Add a new recipe file: 'baked-goods/cake.md'"
```

When we look at the files that exist in the repository with each new
commit, they look like:

1.  Created repo with README: 'README.md'

    ```         
    recipes/
    └── README.md
    ```

2.  Add a new recipe file: 'tomato-soup.md'

    ```         
    recipes/
    ├── README.md
    └── tomato-soup.md
    ```

3.  Fix a typo: 'tomato-soup.md'

    ```         
    recipes/
    ├── README.md
    └── tomato-soup.md <- typo fix
    ```

4.  Move file to new folder: 'soups/tomato.md'

    ```         
    recipes/
    ├── README.md
    └── soup/tomato.md
    ```

5.  Add a new recipe file: 'baked-goods/cake.md'

    ```         
    recipes/
    ├── README.md
    ├── soup/tomato.md
    └── baked-goods/cake.md
    ```

> Because of this history of connected commits that each contain changes
> made to a file, it allows you to be able to navigate this history and
> see exactly what was changed. You can even go back to the state of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the Git history consist of these connected commits with each their
changes, we're able to see exactly what was changed. You can even go back to the state of the
```

folder, with the exact files and their contents that existed at that

> point in time. Why is this important or useful? Because we humans have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
point in time. 

Why is this important or useful? Because we humans have
```
You know I like me some air and shorter sections of text ✈️

## Summary

-   Git is a version control software that tracks changes to files in a
    repository. It allows you to see what changes were made, who made
    them, when they were made, and why they were made.
-   GitHub is a company and website that hosts Git repositories and adds
    tools to help you work with files in a repository.
-   GitHub's landing page as well as it's navigation bar has several
    quick links to commonly used areas of GitHub.
-   A Git repository is a folder that contains all the files and
    sub-folders for a project.
-   File paths are the location of a file or folder in a filesystem.
-   Each change to a file in a repository creates a new commit in the

>     Git history log (when working on GitHub).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Git history log, each with their own commit message (when working on GitHub).
```
